Add some user and tech doc (#3)
vgramer/opa-idea-plugin: docs/devel/architecture.md

# Table of Content
<!-- toc -->
- [Project structure](#project-structure)
- [Lexer](#lexer)
- [Parser](#parser)
- [Testing strategy](#testing-strategy)
  - [Tests resources](#tests-resources)
    - [Example](#example)
  - [Parsing tests](#parsing-tests)
  - [RunConfiguration tests](#runconfiguration-tests)
    - [TestRunConfutation tests](#testrunconfutation-tests)
<!-- /toc -->

*to update toc, please read [this page](../../hack/README.md).*

# Project structure

```
.
├── build.gradle.kts
├── gradle.properties
├── docs
│   └── devel #technical documentation of the project

> ├── hack # set of usefull script to manage the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
├── hack # set of useful script to manage the project
```

└── src
    ├── main
    │   ├── gen # lexer and and parser generated code
    │   ├── grammar # grammar and lexer definition
    │   ├── kotlin
    │   │   └── org.openpolicyagent.ideaplugin
    │   │       ├── ide # code relative to ide action (eg run opa test, create a rego file...)
    │   │       │   ├── actions
    │   │       │   ├── colors
    │   │       │   ├── commenter
    │   │       │   ├── highlight
    │   │       │   └── runconfig
    │   │       ├── lang # code relative to rego language
    │   │       │   ├── lexer
    │   │       │   ├── parser
    │   │       │   ├── psi
    │   │       │   ├── RegoFiletype.kt
    │   │       │   ├── RegoIcons.kt
    │   │       │   └── RegoLanguage.kt
    │   │       ├── opa
    │   │       │   └── tool
    │   │       └── openapiext # extention methods that could be in IDEA sdk
    │   └── resources # assets need by the plugin
    └── test
        ├── kotlin # test source code
        └── resources # assets needed by tests
```

> The project is build thanks to gradle. We use the [gradle kotlin dsl](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project is built using gradle. We use the [gradle kotlin dsl](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)
```

> because it's allow use to use the task `generateRegoLexer` and `generateRegoParser` to tasks automatically generate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because it contains the tasks `generateRegoLexer` and `generateRegoParser` that automatically generate
```

lexer and parser code before compiling kotlin code.

# Lexer

> The lexer is defined by the [RegoLexer.lex](../../src/main/grammar/RegoLexer.flex) file written in [JFlex](https://www.jflex.de/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lexer is defined by the [RegoLexer.flex](../../src/main/grammar/RegoLexer.flex) file written in [JFlex](https://www.jflex.de/)
```

format. Code can be generated thanks to `generateRegoLexer` gradle tasks.

# Parser
The parser is defined by the [Rego.bnf](../../src/main/grammar/Rego.bnf) file written in [Grammar kit ](https://github.com/JetBrains/Grammar-Kit)

> format. It's looks like a `bnf` grammar. `Grammar kit` also generate the [PSI](https://www.jetbrains.org/intellij/sdk/docs/basics/architectural_overview/psi.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
format. It's looks like a `bnf` grammar. `Grammar kit` also generates the [PSI](https://www.jetbrains.org/intellij/sdk/docs/basics/architectural_overview/psi.html)
```

> (Program Structure Interface) which a kind of AST but with more information. Lots of ide features are plugged to the PSI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Program Structure Interface) which is a kind of AST but with more information. Lots of ide features are plugged to the PSI.
```

> so once the PSI is generated, some feature like commenting code are really straightforward to implement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the PSI is generated, some features like commenting code are really straightforward to implement.
```

Code can be generated thanks to `generateRegoParser` gradle tasks.

# Testing strategy

> As an introduction we recommend to read the official [documentation](https://www.jetbrains.org/intellij/sdk/docs/basics/testing_plugins/testing_plugins.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an introduction we recommend reading the official [documentation](https://www.jetbrains.org/intellij/sdk/docs/basics/testing_plugins/testing_plugins.html).
```

For testing we use the following frameworks:

>  * Junit 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * JUnit 4
```

>  * [assertJ](https://assertj.github.io/doc/#assertj-overview): a fluent assertion framework

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [AssertJ](https://assertj.github.io/doc/#assertj-overview): a fluent assertion framework
```

> Main classes to extends for testing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Primary classes to extend for testing:
```

> [OpaTestBase](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/OpaTestBase.kt): extends `BasePlatformTestCase` for light tests (use an in memory FS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpaTestBase](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/OpaTestBase.kt): extends `BasePlatformTestCase` for light tests (uses an in memory FS).
```

> [OpaWithRealProjectTestBase](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/OpaWithRealProjectTestBase.kt): extends `CodeInsightFixtureTestCase` for test that need a real FS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpaWithRealProjectTestBase](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/OpaWithRealProjectTestBase.kt): extends `CodeInsightFixtureTestCase` for tests that need a real FS.
```

## Tests resources

> Lots of tests compare an initial file and a the resulting file after an action on it (eg commenting code). A common pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lots of tests compare an initial file and the resulting file after an action on it (eg. commenting code). A common pattern
```

in intelliJ is to name these resources after the name of the test.

The logic to find and compare both files are implemented in base classes `OpaTestBase`, `OpaWithRealProjectTestBase`. 

> In your test class you must override = `dataPath` field to indicate the folder containing the resources files. By 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your test class you must override the `dataPath` field to indicate the folder containing the resources files. By 
```

> convention this name of this folder follow the pattern `<package_of_the_tested_class>.fixtures`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
convention the name of this folder follows the pattern `<package_of_the_tested_class>.fixtures`
```

### Example

> lets look at the [RegoCommenterTest](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/ide/commenter/RegoCommenterTest.kt)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lets look at the [RegoCommenterTest](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/ide/commenter/RegoCommenterTest.kt).
```

The resources files for this test Class are located at `src/test/resources/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/ide/commenter/fixtures`

> **note: you can see that `dataPath` omit the prefix `src/test/resources/`. Because it's common to all the tests, the base test class (`OpaTestBase`) automatically add it**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**note: You can see that `dataPath` omits the prefix `src/test/resources/`. Because it's common to all the tests, the base test class (`OpaTestBase`) automatically adds it**
```

> The resource file for the test `test single line` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resource files for the test `test single line` are:
```

* `single_line.rego`: the file before running the commenting action  
* `single_line_after.rego`: the expected result (ie the file with the commented code)

## Parsing tests

> The parsing test are very simple. They just check that rego code is well parsed (ie parsing does not return error). For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parsing tests are very simple. They just check that rego code is well parsed (ie parsing does not return error). For
```

> the moment it's does not check the PSI. Eventually we will have to do it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the moment it does not check the PSI. Eventually, support will be added for it.
```

## RunConfiguration tests                                                      
For RunConfiguration or TestRunConfiguration we do two kinds of test:
* testing the runConfiguration parameter validation
* testing the execution 
 
The tests extends from [RunConfigurationTestBase](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/ide/runconfig/RunConfigurationTestBase.kt)

> This class extends from `OpaWithRealProjectTestBase`. We can not extends from `OpaTestBase` because we need a "real" FS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class extends from `OpaWithRealProjectTestBase`. We can not extend such tests from `OpaTestBase` because a "real" FS is needed to run such tests.
```

> to run test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The class `RunConfigurationTestBase` offer some utility methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The class `RunConfigurationTestBase` offers some utility methods:
```

* `createConfiguration` to create the run configuration
* `executeAndGetOutput` to execute the configuration and get the output

> Moreover the [FileTree](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/FileTree.kt) module contains a lille dsl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, the [FileTree](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/FileTree.kt) module contains some DSL
```

> to create file in the test project. This allow to easily saw what kind of project we test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to create files in the test project. This allows us to easily see what kind of project is being tested.
```

```kotlin
  buildProject {
            dir("src") {
                rego(
                    "all.rego", """
                        package main
                        import data.sec
                        
                        allow[msg] {

>                             # using a rule define din another package in order to be sure that bundle has load file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                            # using a rule defined in another package in order to be sure that bundle has loaded the file
```

                            sec.allow
                            msg:= "allowed by sec"
                        }
                    """.trimIndent()
                )
                rego(
                    "sec.rego", """
                        package sec
    
                        allow {
                            input.sec == true
                        }
                    """.trimIndent()
                )

                json(
                    "input.json", """
                        {
                            "sec": true
                        }
                    """.trimIndent()
                )
            }
        }
```
 

> ### TestRunConfutation tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TestRunConfiguration tests
```

For testing a testRunConfiguration, there are several changes from the RunConfiguration. When we execute a test configuration
we want to check:

* the test tree structure: all rego tests are present in the tree and have the valid status (Pass, Failed)
* the output of each node in the tree (ie the output corresponding to one rego test)

To execute the configuration we use the method `executeAndGetTestRoot`. This method return the test tree.

> In order ot *test the  tree structure* we use the method `getFormattedTestTree` that return the tree has a string for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to *test the tree structure* we use the method `getFormattedTestTree` that returns the tree as a string for
```

easy comparison with an expected output

example of output of `getFormattedTestTree`
```
[root](-)
.data.test.main.test_rule_2_should_be_ko(-)
.data.test.main.test_rule1_should_be_ok(+)
.data.test.main.test_should_raise_error(-)
```

> In order ot *test the output of each node* we use the method `checkTreeErrorMsg(root)`. This method walk the test tree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to *test the output of each node* we use the method `checkTreeErrorMsg(root)`. This method walks the test tree
```

> and check the node output match a regex defined in a file. By convention this file must name after the name of the node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and checks whether the node output matches a regex defined in a file. By convention, this file must be named after the name of the node
```

and located in the folder `${dataPath}/${testName}`

> please look at [TestRunConfigurationExecutionOpaTest](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/ide/runconfig/test/TestRunConfigurationExecutionOpaTest.kt)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please look at [TestRunConfigurationExecutionOpaTest](../../src/test/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/ide/runconfig/test/TestRunConfigurationExecutionOpaTest.kt)
```
